---
sidebar_position: 1
id: assets-overview
title: Overview
sidebar_label: "Overview"
---
# API Overview
Assets API is an API that lets you store, fetch, alter, and delete assets. Asset content is stored in your
configured object store and asset metadata is stored within the configured database.

# API Design
Direkt's Asset API is wide-open and designed to fit your domain model(s). Similar to S3 or Zookeeper, the API is path-based.
Everything after `/assets/` is up to you. Assets are stored and queried by their path but unlike S3, many assets can
reside at a single path representing a collection. Modifiers let you determine how you want your asset retrieved,
how many assets to retrieve, and ordering.

For example, let's say you wish to store an image for a customer's user profile:
## To store
```http
POST /assets/users/123/profile-picture
```
## To query
```http
GET /assets/users/123/profile-picture
```

# Concepts

## Asset
An **Asset** is a logical entity representing a static file. Currently, only **images** are supported, with plans to 
add more file types (e.g., PDF). An asset is a combination of two objects:

1.  The **Variant(s)**: The physical file content and its properties.
2.  The **Metadata**: The relational data stored in the database (e.g., `labels`, `tags`, `source`).

## Entry ID
When an asset is stored at a path, an `entryId` is generated by Direkt for that asset. The `entryId` is a unique `Long`
that identifies the asset at that particular path. Entry IDs are best used to query for specific assets at a specific path.

## Query Modifiers
When querying or deleting an asset, **Query Modifiers** provide fine-grained control over the operation. 
They are specified after the **path-separator**, `/-/`, in the URL.

> ⚠️ **Note:**
> Modifiers are currently only applicable to **fetching** (`GET`) and **deleting** (`DELETE`) assets. There are no 
> query modifiers for storing or updating an asset.

The structure of a request using modifiers is:

### Fetching (GET)
The query modifiers for fetching an asset are:
- Return format: The format you want the asset
- Ordering: The ordering used when multiple assets exist in the same path
- Limit: How many assets you want returned
- Entry ID: Which specific asset do you want to fetch in the path

### Deleting
The query modifiers for deleting an asset are:
- Mode: How to identify assets to delete
- Entry ID: Which specific asset do you want to delete in the path

Query modifier defaults can always be omitted in the URL string.
